## snapshot testing

Piet uses 'snapshot testing' to verify that changes do not unexpectedly modify
behaviour. During CI, sample pictures are generated by the various `picture_{}`
files in `piet`'s [`samples`] module, and the results are compared against
previously generated versions.

The previously generated versions are stored in a separate repository,
[`piet-snapshots`]; these are saved per-platform, because platform behaviour may
differ (especially around fonts).

### updating the reference snapshots

If your patch changes the behaviour of these snapshots, they will need to be
regenerated. The easiest way to do this is to open a draft PR; this will trigger
a 'snapshots' CI run. On failure, this will upload an artifact containing the
generated snapshots (see [persisting workflow data using artifacts] for
information on artifacts).

In order to update the snapshots, you will need to open a companion PR in
the [`piet-snapshots`] repo. This PR should include all of the new or changed
images expected by your main PR.

**note**: your PR in [`piet-snapshots`] should be opened from a branch in that
repo, **not in a fork**; if you do not have write access to that repo ask @cmyr
or @raphlinus (or another administrator) to set it up for you.

**note**: When your PR is merged, you should merge (**not rebase**) your PR in
`piet-snapshots`. Rebasing would cause the revision to be rewritten, which would
mean that the commit referenced by the submodule would no longer exist.

[`samples`]: https://github.com/linebender/piet/tree/main/piet/src/samples
[`piet-snapshots`]: https://github.com/linebender/piet-snapshots
[persisting workflow data using artifacts]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/persisting-workflow-data-using-artifacts
